[Music]
imagine this you've decided to set sail
across the Atlantic Ocean only you'll be
taking a flimsy little inflatable boat
and no water or food supplies it's hard
to visualize because who in their right
mind would do such a thing
well one guy did it way back in the 50s
and he did it for a very good reason
Allen bombard was a French doctor with a
huge interest in survival techniques in
his medical experience he saw plenty of
cases of how tragic outcomes of
shipwrecks can be one thing bothered him
most of all at that time lifeboats
didn't have any fishing equipment plus
it was universally believed that people
can't survive stranded in the ocean for
more than a few days so no one would go
and search for them after that bombard
couldn't let such crucial misinformation
continue he developed a theory that it's
possible to survive for much longer only
by consuming raw fish plankton for
vitamin C and salty sea water if it were
handled properly and at a bare minimum
that's a pretty key if only because even
just one sip of sea water can really
hurt your health
granted bombard solution wasn't great by
any means but it was a solution he
borrowed the fish idea from the
Polynesians who knew that every single
fish contains a certain freshwater like
substance that you can drink in case of
extreme dehydration bombard even took it
a step further and created a fish
squeezer yes it's exactly what it sounds
like a device that juices a fish like a
lemon he was sure that this fresh fish
juice can be mixed with sea water and
that will save anyone unfortunate enough
to be stranded at sea this all probably
sounds a bit odd and maybe even loony
and you wouldn't be the only one to see
it that way lots of people who heard of
bombards ideas laughed at him but the
thing is he wasn't the first who wanted
to
prove that people are much more
resilient ocean survivors than
previously thought in fact when he
decided to prove his daring theories he
was directly inspired by one famous
journey the 1947 kontiki expedition of
Thor Heyerdahl who crossed the distance
between Peru and Polynesia with his crew
on a small primitive raft called kontiki
the Norwegian ethnographer was trying to
prove that Polynesians may be originally
from South America and left the
continent by sailing without any food
supplies but still they had fresh water
with them
so what Allan bombard was planning would
be even riskier anyway the back story
now understood let's get to the actual
journey in 1952 the 28 year old decided
to cross the Atlantic Ocean without any
food or water supplies in a 15 by 6 foot
inflatable boat he dumped the vessel The
Heretic
the guy did have a good sense of humor
and decided to make a joke of the fact
that he was the butt of the joke around
town The Heretic was supposed to carry
two people Alan and his friend and
navigator Jack Palmer across the ocean
with basic fishing equipment a compass
and a sail it also had a supply of food
and water for an extreme emergency but
it was sealed and never opened the whole
time their journey started on May 25th
1950 to bombard and Palmer set off from
Monaco and headed west toward the
Americas it didn't take them long to
realize how challenging their goal was
in the first two weeks the ocean gave
them almost nothing and they were
starving they only caught one big fish
of course that wasn't nearly enough but
this single fish kept them alive
Palmer couldn't drink salt water due to
health problems but foggy weather
allowed them to gather around one gallon
of fresh water still it was clear that
Alan's friend wouldn't be able to endure
the whole trip
the bad weather didn't bring only fresh
water
being alone in the ocean surrounded by
fog with no clear vision is scary enough
but people familiar with the sea will
tell you fog brings its own mysteries
with it one day allan and djaq clearly
heard a ship coming closer to them and
they even saw lights the lights were
getting closer and closer the engine
roared louder and louder and the two
buddies tried to attract the crews
attention in case they didn't notice the
little boat and would crash into it but
suddenly the wind blew the fog away and
allan and djaq were shocked by what they
saw or perhaps didn't see there were no
vessels around them at all the ship had
vanished in thin air maybe this was just
a hallucination they were exhausted at
this point after all they'd both seen
and heard it as clear as day so who
knows what secrets the ocean holds a few
days later they landed in Tangier
Morocco where Palmer decided to tap out
of the whole experiment for him this
trip was just too much but for Allen the
experience was only proving that his
theory was true and he could reach his
goal imagine yourself hungry like you
never were in your whole life and you
finally see a city where you can get
food I imagine the temptation to join
his friend must have been unbearable for
the survivalist but he continued this
time all alone the Atlantic wasn't very
fond of his decision though a storm
began almost immediately
that's when Alan realized he wasn't even
close to being prepared for it the waves
were huge and he had absolutely no way
to get the water out of his boat had it
not been inflatable this could have been
the bitter end of Alan's epic journey
and probably even his life he still had
to come up with something as soon as
possible and he did he scooped the water
out of the boat with his hat but the
trouble had only just begun the wind
became so strong it tore the sail apart
it's often said that a person can
overcome their limits in extreme
situations and it seemed like Alan did
exactly that when the storm was over
bombards heretic was still afloat and he
soon repaired the sail too as if Alan
bombard had somehow passed a cruel
examination by the Atlantic the waters
around him went calm and fish started
showing up in swarms from there on he
always had enough opportunities to get
food and water but his diet still wasn't
healthy by any means
dr. bombard found himself getting
terrible rashes and any scratch on his
body refused to heal chances are he was
extremely malnourished Living God raw
fish alone was bad enough but one fish
was just the worst and it wasn't even a
shark it was a swordfish remember he was
in an inflatable boat and those things
aren't called swordfish for nothing
his lunch did end up punching the boat
badly once again Alan was forced to
scoop water out of the boat relentlessly
the main goal of his dangerous trip was
to prove that people stranded at sea
after shipwreck could survive but he
didn't stop himself from trying to
attract the attention of nearby ships
his experience proved that it was too
hard though he came across several ships
but was noticed only once by the crew of
a British vessel called Eric akka this
encounter was the second time bomb
was tempted to quit his treacherous
experiment for good
imagine him seeing people a good meal
and a soft warm bed to lie down it but
I'm sure you know by now that the doc
just kept floating on he did take a
couple of eggs an apple and some
vegetables does that count as cheating
I'll let you decide even after being
told that he was about 620 miles away
from his destination he didn't bat an
eye the rest of his trip was hard but
not as terrible as it had been before
even as the Sun scorched his skin he
lost 52 pounds and weathered a typhoon
none of that could compared to the
starvation and storms he'd already gone
through on December 23rd 1952 he arrived
in Barbados West Indies and his
emergency food supplies were still
sealed dr. Allan bombard needed serious
medical attention and received hospital
treatment after a two thousand seven
hundred mile trip on a little boat with
no food and nothing but raw fish for
breakfast lunch and dinner that comes as
no surprise at all with his act of pure
bravery and some would say stubborn
foolishness but hey it was for a good
cause he proved his point
it was soon acknowledged that shipwreck
survivors should be searched
continuously for a much longer period
than just ten days it's hard to
comprehend just how many lives have been
saved thanks to dr. Allan bombard since
1952 when he decided to cross the
Atlantic Ocean in an inflatable boat and
test just how strong the human will to
survive truly is and what people would
you consider heroes that deserve more
recognition let me know down in the
comments if you learned something new
today then give this video a like and
share it with a friend
but partner don't go anywhere just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you need to do is pick
the left or right video click on it and
enjoy your welcome here on the bright
side of life